A [spark](<./Spark.md>) is **resolved** when its superposition is collapsed to a discrete point, and [diffused](<./Diffusing.md>) otherwise. A resolved spark is far better at [sequencing](<./Sequencing.md>); it can cause extreme changes in [æthereal energy](<./Energy.md>) that even the strongest sparks would be incapable of doing otherwise. However, a resolved spark is extremely vulnerable to fluctuations in the æther, both [æthereal wind](<./Wind.md>) and malicious attacks.

A spark must be resolved to part with the [body](<./Body.md>). When a fae's spark resolves and leaves their body, the fae becomes unconscious; in a sense, their identity ceases to exist. The body acts by instinct, while the spark acts based on its memories and wills. Both are still creating new [memories](<../Phenomena/Memory.md>), so when the spark diffuses back into the body, the fae will have some cloudy memories of what the two parts experienced. These memories may be confusing, as the subconscious spark automatically makes sense of the memories as if they were experienced by the fae as a whole rather than two independent parts. The experience of diffusing after resolving is comparable to [dreaming](<../Phenomena/Sleeping & Dreaming.md>).

A resolved spark appears as a bright point of white light. Sparks of higher power may hurt to look at. Its aura is limited in how large and small it can be while resolved; the average limits are a between 3 cm and 20 cm, with the minimum decreasing and the maximum increasing with the spark’s [power](<./Spark.md#Power>).

A [fae](<./Fae.md>) requires [focus](<./Focusing.md>) to resolve or diffuse a spark, but they do not need to keep focus to keep a spark in either state. A fae can be forced to resolve their spark through sequencing; this is called **collapsing**. When a fae’s body [dies](<../Phenomena/Death.md>), their spark collapses.

A resolved spark is detached from the body. It can move itself, and it can be moved completely independently of a body. Fluctuations in the æther can move it too, much like wind.

A spark cannot diffuse into a body that already has a spark.