The **æther** is a vector field that influences randomness and entropy. It essentially determines how things progress through time. The æther interacts with everything, and everything interacts with the æther; all physical interactions in the universe operate through the æther.

## Axes
Each infinitesimal point in the æther has two polar magnitudes. The two axes were arbitrarily named according to a more classical understanding of the physics behind sequencing; each axis’s positive and negative signs are named one of four elements. The axes are:
- The **ground-sky** axis. The ground element refers to a positive magnitude, and the sky element refers to a negative magnitude. Electromagnetism is associated with this field; areas of high positive electrical charge are also high in the ground element, but fluctuations in the other axis can still affect the electromagnetic field.
- The **warm-cold** (or fyr-is?) axis. The warm element refers to a positive magnitude, and the cold element refers to a negative magnitude. This axis may correspond to thermodynamic properties (including temperature), but fluctuations in the other axis can still affect these properties.
The æther is continuous; individual objects do not have their own vector fields, but rather occupy the æther as they do in physical space. Thus, any object has an infinite number of any four “elements”; it may have positive and negative magnitudes in the same axis at different points of this vector field. The æther as a whole is rather chaotic; it rapidly changes and appears unpredictable. However, it is ultimately subjected to the laws of thermodynamics: the æther is always progressing to a higher state of entropy (equilibrium), and changes in magnitude always require equal opposing changes within the system.

## Conductance
[Æthereal energy](<./Energy.md>) propagates at varying speeds. Most notably, it moves fastest through bone and [Cirrolite](<../Technology/Cirrolite.md>), and slower through keratin. Bone is very often used to facilitate changes or hold a charge in the field in components ranging from bone wands to bone capacitors. Meanwhile, fur is often used to protect systems from external changes.

Any living being with bones can sense æthereal energy. Horns, teeth, and bone tools strengthen this sense.